Let's work on the journal,
getting all the entries.
Let's just do that.
It's fine if we don't have any right now,
we'll at least get an empty array.
Then when we're able to make them, they'll
just show up on a page magically and
it'll feel good.
So let's just do that.
So in the journal, it's a server.
It's a react server component, which means
we can just fetch all the general entries
right here in this file because
it's gonna execute in Node.
None of this code is gonna
end up in the browser.
It's just going to be HTML.
So let's make a function that does that.
So we'll say const get entries.
It's gonna be an a sync function.
And we're gonna bring in our database,
so prisma, like this.
And we need to get all
the entries from the database.
So let's look at our schema.
Let's see if we can figure out what
we need to get the entries for
this user from the database.
So if we look at an entry, this is
everything an entry has, what would I,
what would I need to know to get
all the entries for a certain user?
>> User ID?
>> Yeah, I would need to know the user ID.
I would need to know the user ID, but
how can I get the user ID
while I'm in this page?
>> Current user.
>> Current user will give
me the clerk user, but
it won't give me the user in my database.
But maybe there's something there.
>> Is there an authed user?
>> So it sounds like what you're saying,
we need to make that [LAUGH].
So let's do that.
So I'm gonna go to utilities.
I'm gonna make a new file,
I'm gonna call it off.
And basically in this file is, so
we can get the current clerk user,
we can't get because clerk
has utilities around.
Grabbing the information from cookies and
things like that, making an API call and
giving us the user.
But I need to get the user ID
of the user in my database.
But I have the clerk user and I know
that I have a clerk ID on the user, so
I can leverage that like,
if I have the clerk ID,
I can find the user and then I can grab
that user's ID and find the entries.
I'm probably gonna be doing that a lot.
Let's make a helper function that
associates our clerk ID with a given user.
Basically, find a user by this clerk ID.
Let's do that.
We're going to have to write that so
many times.
So export const git user by
clerk ID a sync function.
And basically we'll just say and
we'll do that we'll do
the author one not the user one
because all we need is the ID so
we can say await off from clerk next like
this, this will give us the user ID.
And then we can say,
const user equals await.
We can bring in our prisma ,dot
user dot find unique where,
clerk ID is user ID.
I'm actually gonna do a find throw,
find or throw here.
Because if somehow you convince
clerk that you're real, but
you don't exist in my database,
that's a problem.
So I'm gonna throw that in.
At this point, I would imagine you
are in my database because how
would you have slipped past the new
user logic that we created over here?
So something's not right.
So I definitely wanna see
this error if it happens.
Like that's the type of thinking you have
to do when you're building like a full
stack app is like how these
systems work together.
And that's why like, even if you're like
10 years in, and you're a senior engineer,
you're gonna work on a new company
that has a new code base, and
you're familiar with that code.
You're familiar with the framework.
You don't know how they're
things tie together.
So you're still gonna take a long
time like this affects this, and
this affects this, and this affects this.
That's why there's frameworks out there
frameworks are there to kind of lessen
that load, especially frameworks
that have conventions like nextJas.
So you can just make a very safe
assumption like, yeah, that's a page.
That's a route, that's a layout.
Like you can just make those assumptions.
Whereas, if this wasn't here,
then now you gotta be like, well,
hey team,
what's the convention for our app?
And they'll be like, yeah ask this person.
And it's the person that like
quit like a month ago, so
they don't work here anymore.
And no one keeps up the style guy,
style guy is like two years old.
So good luck looking at that.
So this is why frameworks are great
because it helps lessen the burden of
understanding what the conventions are.
Even then,
you'll still be pretty down bad for
a while until you figure
those conventions out.
Okay, so now we have a user, and
then we can just return this user.
We're not doing any error
handling right now.
Cool.
And then actually,
I'll probably just extend this to take in,
I'll extend this to take in like Let's see
I'm gonna say like includes this will make
sense in a second and then select, yeah.
So when you do a search, you can say,
select what properties you wanna
select from this user object.
And then include is basically
like doing a joint table.
Like if there were references on
this user schema, which there is.
You can say like, include entries and
it will go grab those entries and
include them here on the user.
So I'm just gonna extend this function
to allow you to pass in those things so
I can pass them into the query.
So you can get them on the user object.
Yes.
>> Is there a reason you don't make
the ID in the user table the same as
the clerk ID?
>> Is there?
Yeah, I don't wanna be bound to clerk if
I decide that I don't wanna use clerk
anymore.
And like, hey,
we're switching off providers, so
we're gonna roll our own off.
I don't wanna have clerk IDs.
That's mostly it and
then also I don't want.
I would rather the database be responsible
for making ID's than me be responsible for
making ID's.
It seems like that means every time you
make a new user, you have to make an API
call, which I guess you have to do
right now anyway with the clerk ID.
Yeah, I mean there's it's just those
reasons just thinking ahead of being like,
I don't want to be bound to this.
And I would rather the database do
the IDs, but if you feel safe and
comfortable with that, yeah,
you could totally do it.
I mean, all you have to do is just
get rid of everything after ID.
Just get rid of this default,
and you're good.
You just got to add the IDs yourself.
But I'm not doing it.
Okay, so back to auth, we have
getUserByClerkID this returns the user,
you can include or
select whatever you want.
If anything, these need some
healthy defaults, I believe so,
hopefully passing an empty object
to prisma won't make it die.
So hopefully that works.
I think that's pretty good there.
So we'll go back to our page.
And now we can say user equals await,
get user by clerk ID like that.
And this thing's freaking out
because I made that non-optional?
Let me see,
this is this is what I'm talking about.
I gotta go, I'm like, all right, let me
tell this like I'm not doing all that I'm
just gonna let that thing freak out.
I'm [LAUGH] don't like
passing that stuff in so
I'm not gonna do it,
it's just gonna freak out.
It's still valid JavaScript.
So cool.
We have our user and then now I can say,
give me all the entries.
So I can say Prisma dot journal entries,
journal entry.fine.
Many where user
ID is user.id.
And an order by created
at descending.
So newest at the top or no,
that would be ascending, wouldn't it?
No, no, no descending.
Yeah, newest at the top.
More time goes on, the bigger the number.
So yeah, so we got our entries
that belong to the user.
We can return those entries.
Great.
By default, if there are any entries,
it'll return an empty array.
All right,
make this an async page components and
then we can say, get them entries
= await getentries() Got it.
And I'll just log this.
Since nothing's gonna be there,
we can just see that,
that it's an empty array, at least.
Hopefully, we'll see
everything goes right.
Cool, let's check it out.
Can I read properties of undefined?
So I'm destructuring.
I guess I just need to, okay,
I gotta go on and do some work here.
I didn't wanna do it,
but we'll just do it.
So I could actually just do that,
and that will work actually
that's probably the simplest
easiest way to do it I think.
I know it then this will be undefined,
is so much work.
This will happen when
you try to get fancy.
All right, let's just do it the right way.
So we'll just say options and
options equals an empty object.
And then we can just say
select is options.select.
Or like an empty object.
And includes is options .includes or
an empty object.
Assuming we can put empty object.
If this breaks, then there's
a million ways to fix this, but
I'll probably just scrap it because
it's already making me mad.
Okay.
Let's see, yeah, it looks like.
Yeah, it doesn't like, I knew it.
I called it.
It doesn't like when it's empty, okay?
We're just not gonna let you do it because
I don't feel like dealing with this.
You just can't be extended,
how about that?
You just don't get to do it.
Try to make these nice functions and
they don't wanna play along.
Cool, okay, so that fixed that.
And then if we look in the output of our.
Terminal, we see entries an empty array.
And all this stuff you see here is
just the logging of the database.
Every time you interact with the database,
it's gonna log.
Because in my prisma client,
I put that on there.
I'll put, I'll put a log each query.
You can take that off if
you don't wanna see it.
Yes.
>> Someone in the chat suggested that you
could default them to undefined.
>> Yeah.
>> Which would work,
there's a lot of ways to do it.
>> Yeah, I just don't,
I don't wanna do it anymore, but yes,
you could default to undefined.
I mean, honestly, the real way to do it
is just to first write the types for it.
And then dynamically,basically
what you would do is
you would take this object out,
make this a variable, like so, right?
And then you would add dynamically
if something was here.
So either the prop is there or
it isn't there.
Versus that, and that's probably the best
way, you can also do that inline too.
By setting it to undefined,
which is what the person was talking
about cuz undefined gets dropped.